# 2.2 Release Notes

Compatibility release with WordPress 4.4 – support for `termmeta` table.

Released on 15-Dec-2015.

!!! note "Note: this is an EAP release"
    [EAP releases](/en/user/getting-started/about-eap) are generally stable but the software is still young, limited in scope and an external backup is recommended at all times.


## New in 2.2

 - **Support for term meta** (#553). After many years, WordPress added a new database table in its 4.4 release. The core itself doesn't use it in any way but plugins will so we added support for that.
 - **Tests for sync workflows** introduced in VersionPress 2.0. As usual, when we don't have something covered by tests, there are bugs in it so it was time to patch this. (#557)
 - **Terms and term taxonomies are now stored similarly to other entities**. During the past few releases, we've put some effort into unifying our internal structures so that they all follow the same scheme. Terms (#554) and term taxonomies (#578) were the last ones to join.
 - Fixed several bugs:
     - Count of posts related to a term_taxonomy is not updated during synchronization (#590)
     - Deleting category or menu with children doesn't update children's parent (#562)
     - Bug report didn't work (#569)
 - Other smaller improvements:
     - "void" VPID references (WordPress left-overs in the database) are now stored as zeros and are not excluded from our data structures. This helps when restoring the site from VersionPress repo. (#597)
     - If initialization fails, VersionPress now cleans up after itself properly (#585)
     - Better timeout handling in Initializer (#575)
     - Process timeout increased from the Symfony-hardcoded 60 seconds to one hour (#574)
     - Tests updated for WordPress 4.4 (#595) and back-fixed to work for WP 4.3 and below (pre-termmeta) (#594)
     - `wporg_favorites` usermeta is no longer tracked (#598)
     - IniSerializer was simplified – old code working with hierarchies removed (#596)
     - `.idea` folder excluded from version control (internal dev thing) (#507)

Also, during this release, we introduced a **new support repo** [versionpress/support](https://github.com/versionpress/support) on GitHub which is now a preferred way to open support tickets. We'll be experimenting with this.


## Upgrade notes

VersionPress 2.2 is not directly upgradable from 2.1.x and previous versions, full re-activation is required. The recommended procedure is:

 1. Put the site under maintenance mode
 2. Deactivate VersionPress (just deactivate, do not uninstall)
 3. Delete the contents of `wp-content/plugins/versionpress` and extract current VersionPress there
 4. Activate & initialize the plugin again
 5. Disable maintenance mode


## System requirements

General system requirements:

 - PHP 5.3.4 or later
 - WordPress 4.1 or later (should work on 3.9+ but it's only officially tested on 4.1+)
 - Git 1.9 or later
 - `proc_open()` enabled on the server

System requirements for sync / multi-instance workflows:

 - For 2.x, we recommend custom server / VPS as most hosting providers will pose further restrictions on creating site clones.
