# 2.1 Release Notes

Our first point release addresses several issues in sync scenarios.

Released on 12-Nov-2015.


<div class="note">
  <strong>Note: this is an EAP release</strong>
  <p>Early Access is a period during which VersionPress is reasonably stable but still young, limited in scope and an external backup is recommended at all times. <a href="../getting-started/about-eap">Learn more about EAP</a>.</p>
</div>


## About point releases

We generally aim to release only major versions (`2.0`, `3.0` etc.) and their inevitable bugfix releases (`x.0.1`, `x.0.2` etc.). However, there were things in 2.0 that we wanted to improve before 3.0 and were also bigger than just bug fixes, hence the minor version release. 


## New in 2.1

 - We no longer version-control `rewrite_rules` (#521) and `{taxonomy}_children` (#541) options as they can be regenerated. This fixes some merge conflict situations and also a performance issue in case of `rewrite_rules`.
 - The `--name` parameter of the `vp clone` WP-CLI command is now restricted to numbers, letters, hyphens (`-`) and underscores (`_`) to be as compatible as possible with the derived domain names, DB prefixes etc. (#530)
 - IIS / Windows Server issues were explored and documented. The System Info page now contains a separate section on permissions. (#522)
 - Fixed other small fixes:
     - Incorrect message with `--url` in 'vp clone' command (#518)
     - Cloning doesn't work when domain doesn't match the folder and `--siteurl` doesn't help (#519)
     - Delete vp_rest_api_plugin_version after deactivation VersionPress (#520)
     - "Discard changes" doesn't work with directories containing untracked files (#523)
     - Possible bug in vp_id query (#524)
     - Update definition files and fix clean build (#526) 
     - Reverting option change leads to warnings (#538)


## Upgrade notes

VersionPress 2.1 is not directly upgradable from 2.0.1 and previous versions, full re-activation is required. The recommended procedure is:

 1. Put the site under maintenance mode
 2. Deactivate VersionPress (just deactivate, do not uninstall)
 3. Delete the contents of `wp-content/plugins/versionpress` and extract VersionPress 2.1 there
 4. Activate & initialize the plugin again
 5. Disable maintenance mode


## System requirements

General system requirements:

 - PHP 5.3.4 or later
 - WordPress 4.1 or later (should work on 3.9+ but it's only officially tested on 4.1+)
 - Git 1.9 or later
 - `proc_open()` enabled on the server

System requirements for sync / multi-instance workflows:

 - For 2.x, we recommend custom server / VPS as most hosting providers will pose further restrictions on creating site clones.
