# 1.0.1 Release Notes

Bugfix release for [VersionPress 1.0](./1.0).

Released on 13-May-2015; read the [announcement blog post](http://blog.versionpress.net/2015/05/versionpress-1-0-1-released/).


<div class="note">
  <strong>Note: this is an EAP release</strong>
  <p>[EAP releases](../getting-started/about-eap) are generally stable but the software is still young, limited in scope and an external backup is recommended at all times.</p>
</div>


## Release highlights

 * **Bulk changes now display better messages**. For example, if two posts were moved to trash, 1.0 would output *"Post 'abc' moved to trash"* while 1.0.1 will show *"2 posts moved to trash"*. Technically, the bulk changes were already tracked properly in 1.0, just the messages are now better. (VersionPress will display better messages even for commits made by v1.0.)
     * Tests for bulk changes added as part of this change. There have been [quite a few of them](https://twitter.com/versionpress/status/595211445253595136).
 * **Other minor change message improvements**:
     * Postmeta / usermeta change messages no longer use the word "option" which was confusing, e.g., *"Edited option 'xyz' for post 'abc'"* is now *"Edited post-meta 'xyz' for post 'abc'"*.
     * Term-taxonomy changes now use specific taxonomies, not a generic "term". For example, *"Deleted term 'abc'"* is now *"Deleted category 'abc'"*.
 * **Nginx** has been tested and is now officially supported.
 * **.htaccess** files updated to work on both Apache 2.2 *and 2.4* (Apache 2.4 could have caused issues under some circumstances).
 * Uploading files in problem reporter now works on PHP 5.3+ (used to be 5.5+ because of the external library used).
 * Requirement checker now distinguishes between a state where Git is not detected at all and when just the version number is wrong.
 * Several **bug fixes**, two of theme with high severity (fix in INI serialization and term-taxonomy synchronization). Upgrade is greatly recommended.
 

## Usage notes

System requirements didn't change from 1.0 and are:

* PHP 5.3 or later
* WordPress 4.1 or later (should work on 3.9+ but it's only officially tested on 4.1+)
* Git 1.9 or later

### Upgrade from previous versions 

Upgrade from 1.0 is supported but is manual at the moment. Please follow these steps:

 1. Put the site in a [maintenance mode](http://www.hongkiat.com/blog/wordpress-maintenance/)
 2. Replace the `wp-content/plugins/versionpress` directory in its entirety
 3. Copy `.htaccess` / `web.config` templates from `wp-content/plugins/versionpress/src/Initialization` into these two locations (don't forget to remove the ".tpl" part from them):
     * `<site_root>/.git`
     * `wp-content/vpdb`
 4. Disable the maintenance mode



## Known issues ##

None at the moment.
