# 1.0-rc3 Release Notes

This release is the last big preparation for the final 1.0 version – it is feature complete and reasonably well-tested. The changes are rather small and technical.

Released on XY-Apr-2015.


<div class="note">
  <strong>Note: this is a preview release</strong>
  <p>Release Candidate means that it contains almost all the planned features for the release and that the stability is quite good. However, not all items on our task list are checked yet so still still qualifies as a preview release.</p>
</div>


## Release details

Highlights of this release are:

 - **Custom posts types and fields** are now tested and supported.
 - **Bulk actions** are now properly supported. Most of them worked fine in previous releases but bulk actions around *plugins* (installation / update / deletion) and *themes* (installation / deletion) needed to be added.
 - **WP-CLI actions support**. We mainly test VersionPress against actions in the admin area and on the public web but WP-CLI is another important method to support. This version fixed a couple of cases where WP-CLI commands lead to slightly different commits that what the web UI would create.
 - **WP-CLI commands for undo and rollback**. There are now `wp vp undo` and `wp vp rollback` commands implemented. We use them internally and they are technically part of the codebase now but we don't have them properly documented yet so it's more of an initial support only.
 - **Auto-saved drafts are now better versioned**. VersionPress' behavior around drafts was not entirely in-line with how WordPress works. This is now fixed.
 - **Improvements in cross-platform testing**. We now test VersionPress on more platforms, including Linux, Mac OS X and Windows. Of course there are still lots and lots of combinations of OSes and web servers that we haven't had the opportunity test but every expansion in this area counts.
 - **Performance improvements around reverts and meta entities**. Some operations took a long time on large sites, we have drastically optimized some of the most obvious pain points. Reverts still take some time on larger sites but are generally much faster than in previous releases.
 - **Finished test suite for v1**. Automated tests are extremely important for VersionPress and we've been adding more of them in every release. In RC3, we now have all *types* or tests (unit, functional, Selenium-based, WP-CLI-based, around commits, around database changes etc.) and also fairly large coverage of the supported v1 scenarios. Further changes in this area should be more about writing particular tests then implementing a test framework.
 - **"Foreign keys" support inside meta entities**. VersionPress generally needs to identify entities using something much more unique than standard WordPress IDs and we have been doing that since the first alpha, however, we missed one hidden area where WordPress IDs hide – inside meta entities. Because they don't have a fixed structure, we're adding support for them on the best effort basis and will expand this support in the future.
 - **Git not detected** is a common issue on web servers even if it is installed. We now added some more guides on how to resolve this on the initialization screen.
 - **Some more security hardening**.
 - **Pre-revert popup now "works" even with JavaScript disabled**.
 - **Smaller updates in change tracking**, e.g., better messages for some actions. Mostly minor changes.
 - **Git version requirement stays on 1.9**, see below.

## Usage notes

System requirements for this release are:

* PHP 5.3 or later
* WordPress 3.9 or later (latest release recommended)
* Git 1.9 or later
    * **Note:** it is still quite common to encounter Git 1.7 and 1.8 and we investigated during RC3 timeframe whether we could just relax this requirement. However, the answer is no: VersionPress has reproducible issues with Git 1.7 and 1.8 and it is not our priority at the moment to try to work around that. We might return to this in some later version.


### Upgrade from previous versions 

It's best to start fresh but the basic functionality is upgradable from `1.0-rc2` by replacing the `wp-content/plugins/versionpress` folder (make sure all the VersionPress sites are secured from direct access with fresh installation ensures). Upgrades from older pre-release versions are not supported.


## Known issues ##

None. Until someone finds one.