# 1.0-beta2 Release Notes #

Multiple scenarios are now better tracked but there have also been some important changes to what is stored in the repository and what is ignored. 

Released on 16-Dec-2014.


<div class="note">
  <strong>Note: this is a beta release</strong>
  <p>Beta means approximate feature completeness but bugs might still be there and production use is discouraged. Always have a proper backup solution if you decide to use VersionPress at this stage.</p>
</div>


## Release details

Highlights of this release are:

 - **Not all files versioned (.gitignore added)**. Previously, almost all site files (except small exceptions like the VersionPress `.active` file) have been versioned but there are exclude filters now. For example, the `wp-config.php` file is now ignored. Find the details at [What's not tracked](../feature-focus/change-tracking#whats-not-tracked).
 - **Better change tracking** for various bits, e.g.:
     - Drafts
     - Featured images
     - Comment states (pending / approved etc.)
     - Term renames 
     - Theme switching
     - VersionPress activation and deactivation
     - etc.
 - **Undo now checks "foreign keys" constraints**. For example, if you want to undo a post creation and there have been some comments to this post in the meantime, VersionPress will not allow that.
 - **Undo and rollback messages** are now more helpful. They used to be commit hashes only, now they indicates what was reverted or to which date.
 - **Security review** - making sure that VersionPress doesn't expose anything that wouldn't be otherwise accessible via the standard WP mechanisms.
 - **Git 1.9** is now minimum required version. Issues were identified by our users on version 1.8 and earlier. 
 - Bug fixes


## Usage notes

System requirements for this release are:

* PHP 5.3 or later
* WordPress 3.8 or later
* Clean installation of WordPress – you can then try to install some simpler 3rd party plugins but this whole area is quite volatile at the moment
* **Git 1.9 or later** (new in this release, issues were identified with 1.8 and older)
* `proc_open()` enabled
* No existing `wp-content/db.php` file

### Upgrade from previous versions 

Please do a clean installation if you can. If you want to upgrade from beta1, create a temp site first, install VersionPress there, copy the generated `.gitignore` from there and remove the locations specified in the `.gitignore` from your repository manually.


## Known issues ##

No major issues are known at the moment; some smaller ones need to be ironed out before the 1.0 release.
