# 1.0-beta1 Release Notes #

The first beta, major milestone for this project. VersionPress is now supposed to work most of the time and in most of the simple scenarios. Also, next releases should be upgradable from this beta1. 

Released on XX-yyy-2014.


<div class="note">
  <strong>Note: this is a beta release</strong>
  <p>Beta means approximate feature completeness but bugs might still be there and production use is strongly discouraged. Always have a proper backup solution if you decide to use VersionPress at this stage.</p>
</div>


## Release details ##

Highlights of this release are:

* **Main table paging**. As the number of commits grows, the main table now supports paging.
* **VersionPress service panel** above the main table. Currently features **automated issue reporting** that will bundle things like logs, basic environment info etc. to a single ZIP and post it to our servers for further inspection.
* **Requirements checker** (run before VersionPress is installed) now features **help messages** / detailed information for failed validations.
* **"Multi-commit" messages** allow VersionPress to track actions that involve multiple physical changes better. For example, trashing a post usually involves also some postmeta changes and might also influence some comments; VersionPress now tracks all that properly as part of one change.
* Related to the previous point are **change info priorities** - if there are more changes in one commit, their priorities now influence which message is displayed to the user. For example, VersionPress will display something like *post 'xyz' trashed* rather than *postmeta '_wp_trash_meta_time' updated*.
* **Committing of related changes only**. This is an important technical change that allows VersionPress to work with custom commits made outside of it (e.g., on command line). VersionPress now knows which files should be committed for various detected changes, so for instance if a post changed, it will only commit changes to that post and ignore everything else. Previously, if you had e.g. your theme files edited, the post change commit would take these changes with it.
* **Improved versioning for a couple of things**, for example drafts, postmeta, terms etc.
* **Physical commit messages** are now much more readable which is useful for power users. 
* **Future-proofing of the sync functionality** (team work, multiple environments etc.). Though the full functionality will only land in 2.0, we need to do some ground work in 1.0 so that all works even for older commits.
* **Changed location of the internal `db` folder** so that it better supports future VersionPress updates. This means that there is no direct upgrade path from 1.0-alpha3.
* **Fixed a lot of bugs** found in alpha3.
* Improved the docs site with features like navigation to prev/next topic, updated HTML `title` of the doc articles etc.



## Usage notes ##

*Note: there is no upgrade path from 1.0-alpha3 as noted above. Please install from scratch.*

System requirements for this release are:

* PHP 5.3 or later
* WordPress 3.8 or later
* Clean installation of WordPress – you can then try to install some simpler 3rd party plugins but this whole area is quite volatile at the moment
* Git 1.7 or later (earlier versions might work but are not tested)
* `proc_open()` enabled
* No existing `wp-content/db.php` file


## Known issues ##

* Some comment changes (pending, approved states etc.) are not yet tracker properly
* UI not very polished